FMEPRD-165 Update Sample Ratio Check Documentation (#10645)
harness/developer-hub: docs/feature-management-experimentation/60-experimentation/experiment-results/analyzing-experiment-results/sample-ratio-check.md

However, it's important to note that slight deviations (such as 49.9/50.1 in a 50/50 split) are common and normal as long as the deviation is not statistically significant. The scale of this deviation shrinks as your sample size increases. 

As an illustrative example, in the case of a 50/50 rollout, the 95th percent confidence interval for 1,000 samples lies at 50±3.1%. Simply put, with 1,000 users, if there are more than 531 users in any given treatment there is sample ratio mismatch (SRM). This delta shrinks as the sample size increases. With 1,000,000 samples, a variation of ±0.098% in the sample distribution is cause for concern. As you can see, it is important to understand this potential bias and evaluate your sample distribution thoroughly to prevent invalid results.

:::note
A 50/50 rollout does not imply a perfect 50/50 split in every sample; a small margin of error is expected due to randomness. The sample ratio check detects when this margin of error exceeds a predefined threshold, signaling a possible issue with the randomization or sample allocation.
:::

## Sample ratio check
 

>  Harness FME uses a chi-squared goodness of fit test to detect significant deviations between the targeted and observed sample ratios. This test performs a pairwise comparison between the actual number of users assigned to each treatment and the expected distribution. If the resulting p-value is less than 0.001, we flag a sample ratio mismatch (SRM).

Author: ```suggestion
Harness FME uses a chi-squared goodness of fit test to detect significant deviations between the targeted and observed sample ratios. This test performs a pairwise comparison between the actual number of users assigned to each treatment and the expected distribution. If the resulting p-value is less than 0.001, we flag a sample ratio mismatch (SRM).
```

When conducting its sample ratio check, Harness FME compares the calculated p-value against a threshold of 0.001. This threshold was determined based on the constant and rigorous monitoring performed on the accuracy of our randomization algorithms, and to minimize the impact a false positive would have on the trust of experimental results. We use a threshold of 0.001 (rather than the more common 0.05) to minimize the risk of false positives. This stricter threshold reflects our confidence in the underlying randomization and helps ensure that flagged SRMs are meaningful.

The Harness FME platform performs a sample ratio check with each calculation update to monitor for a significant deviation between the targeted and current sample ratios. This **sample ratio check** is located beneath the summary of key and supporting metrics with other key information including **duration** and **last updated**.

<img src="https://help.split.io/hc/article_attachments/360043234732" alt="sample_ratio_check.png" width="900" /> 

> When performing a sample ratio check in the Harness FME platform, the current treatment pair ratio has to match the targeted treatment pair ratio. For example, say your targeted ratio was 25/25/50 across treatments A/B/C. If you are comparing A to B, the targeted ratio is 25/25 out of the combined 50% allocated to A and B, which simplifies to 50/50. The sample ratio check is conducted against this targeted 50/50 distribution for the selected treatment pair, not the full A/B/C allocation.

Author: ```suggestion
When performing a sample ratio check in the Harness FME platform, the current treatment pair ratio has to match the targeted treatment pair ratio. For example, say your targeted ratio was 25/25/50 across treatments A/B/C. FME performs pairwise comparisons between all treatment pairs: A vs. B, A vs. C, and B vs. C. For A vs. B, the targeted ratio is 25/25 out of the combined 50% allocated to A and B, which simplifies to 50/50. For A vs. C and B vs. C, the targeted ratios are 25/50, or 1:2. The sample ratio check is conducted against this targeted 50/50 distribution for the selected treatment pair, not the full A/B/C allocation.
```
